Palmer Penguins Part One Exploratory Data Analysis and Simple Regression.
Can we predict a penguin's body mass just from its flipper length?
Let's find out.
We have 333 penguins from three species: Adelie, Chinstrap, and Gentoo.
The scatter plot on the right already hints at something interesting.
Longer flippers seem to go with heavier bodies.
Gentoo penguins in blue are clearly the largest.
But how strong is this relationship?
The correlation between flipper length and body mass is 0.87—that's strong.
But correlation only tells us variables are related to make predictions.
We need regression.
Let's fit a line through these points and see how well it works.